Title: Akzidenz-Grotesk

1)Give your research a descriptive subtitle. (Hint: Look at the titles of this week's lectures for inspiration.)
 sans-serif typeface
2)Paragraph 1: Briefly discuss your typeface’s history. Include its designer, the year it was designed,and the historical and technical context out of which it emerged.

Akzidenz-Grotesk is a sans-serif typeface family originally released by the Berthold Type Foundry of Berlin,
Akzidenz-Grotesk's design descends from a school of general-purpose sans-serifs cut in the nineteenth century.Akzidenz-Grotesk's design descends from a school of general-purpose sans-serifs cut in the nineteenth century.Akzidenz indicates its intended use as a typeface for commercial print runs such as publicity, tickets and forms, as opposed to fine printing, and "grotesque" was a standard name for sans-serif typefaces at the time.
Originating during the late nineteenth century, Akzidenz-Grotesk belongs to a tradition of general-purpose, unadorned sans-serif types that had become dominant in German printing during the nineteenth century. Relatively little-known for a half-century after its introduction, it achieved iconic status in the post-war period as the preferred typeface of many Swiss graphic designers in what became called the 'International' or 'Swiss' design style which became popular across the Western world in the 1950s and 1960s. Its simple, neutral design has also influenced many later typefaces. It has sometimes been sold as Standard or Basic Commercial in English-speaking countries, and a variety of digital versions have been released by Berthold and other companies.

3)Paragraph 2: Describe the physical features of your typeface, using the terminology introduced in the videos. Please be sure to include at least one term.

Akzidenz-Grotesk is 'monoline' in structure, with all strokes of the letter of similar width. This gives a sense of simplicity and an absence of the adornment and flourishes seen in the more decorative sans-serifs of the late nineteenth century influenced by the Art Nouveau style.Modern type designer Martin Majoor has described the general design of Akzidenz-Grotesk and its ancestors as similar in letterforms to the Didone serif fonts that were standard printing types in the nineteenth century, such as Didot, Walbaum and their followers.This is most visible in the quite folded-up apertures of letters such as ‘a’ and ‘c’.The capitals of Akzidenz-Grotesk are wide and relatively uniform in width.


4)Include a list of sources consulted and/or quoted for this research. A list of links is fine.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Akzidenz-Grotesk
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/search/?scope=typography&terms=Akzidenz%20Grotesk